Update changelog for the next release (#932)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: .github/CHANGELOG.md

  Number of executions (optimized): 1
  ```

<h4>New quantum gradient features</h4>

* Compute the analytic gradient of quantum circuits in parallel on supported devices.
  [(#840)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/840)

  This release introduces support for batch execution of circuits, via a new device API method
  `Device.batch_execute()`. Devices that implement this new API support submitting a batch of
  circuits for *parallel* evaluation simultaneously, which can significantly reduce the computation time.

  Furthermore, if using tape mode and a compatible device, gradient computations will
  automatically make use of the new batch API---providing a speedup during optimization.

* Gradient recipes are now much more powerful, allowing for operations to define their gradient
  via an arbitrary linear combination of circuit evaluations.
  [(#909)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/909)
  [(#915)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/915)

  With this change, gradient recipes can now be of the form
  :math:`\frac{\partial}{\partial\phi_k}f(\phi_k) = \sum_{i} c_i f(a_i \phi_k + s_i )`,

>   and are no longer restricted to two-term shifts with identical (but negated) shift values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and are no longer restricted to two-term shifts with identical (but opposite in sign) shift values.
```

      return qml.density_matrix(wires=[1])  # wire 0 is traced out
  ```

> * Adds the square root X gate `SX`. [(#871)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/871)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds the square-root X gate `SX`. [(#871)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/871)
```

  ```python
  dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=1)

  @qml.qnode(dev)
  def circuit():
      qml.SX(wires=[0])
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(wires=[0]))
  ```

* Two new hardware-efficient particle-conserving templates have been implemented
  to perform VQE-based quantum chemistry simulations. The new templates apply
  several layers of the particle-conserving entanglers proposed in Figs. 2a and 2b

>   of the article by Barkoutsos *et al*. in [arXiv:1805.04340](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.04340)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  of Barkoutsos *et al*., [arXiv:1805.04340](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.04340)
```

  [(#875)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/875)
  [(#876)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/876)

<h4>Estimate and track resources</h4>

* The `QuantumTape` class now contains basic resource estimation functionality. The method
  `tape.get_resources()` returns a dictionary with a list of the constituent operations and the

>   number of times they were run. Similarly, `tape.get_depth()` computes the circuit depth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  number of times they appear in the circuit. Similarly, `tape.get_depth()` computes the circuit depth.
```

  [(#862)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/862)

  ```pycon
  >>> with qml.tape.QuantumTape() as tape:
  ...    qml.Hadamard(wires=0)
  ...    qml.RZ(0.26, wires=1)
  ...    qml.CNOT(wires=[1, 0])
  ...    qml.Rot(1.8, -2.7, 0.2, wires=0)
  ...    qml.Hadamard(wires=1)
  ...    qml.CNOT(wires=[0, 1])
  ...    qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0) @ qml.PauliZ(1))
  >>> tape.get_resources()
  {'Hadamard': 2, 'RZ': 1, 'CNOT': 2, 'Rot': 1}
  >>> tape.get_depth()
  4
  ```

* The number of device executions over a QNode's lifetime can now be returned using `num_executions`.
  [(#853)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/853)

  ```pycon
  >>> dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)
  >>> @qml.qnode(dev)
  ... def circuit(x, y):
  ...    qml.RX(x, wires=[0])
  ...    qml.RY(y, wires=[1])
  ...    qml.CNOT(wires=[0, 1])
  ...    return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0) @ qml.PauliX(1))
  >>> for _ in range(10):
  ...    circuit(0.432, 0.12)
  >>> print(dev.num_executions)
  10
  ```

> <h3>Improvements</h3>

Author: I tried to order the improvements section from most useful to users (improvements that are user-facing or even verging on new user-facing features), down to least useful (improvements that are implementation details).

  - `qnn.ExpvalCost` [(#863)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/863)
    [(#911)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/911)

  - `qml.qnn.KerasLayer` [(#869)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/869)

  - `qml.qnn.TorchLayer` [(#865)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/865)

  - The `qml.qaoa` module [(#905)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/905)

* A new function, `qml.refresh_devices()`, has been added, allowing PennyLane to
  rescan installed PennyLane plugins and refresh the device list. In addition, the `qml.device`
  loader will attempt to refresh devices if the required plugin device cannot be found.
  This will result in an improved experience if installing PennyLane and plugins within
  a running Python session (for example, on Google Colab), and avoid the need to
  restart the kernel/runtime.
  [(#907)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/907)

* When using `grad_fn = qml.grad(cost)` to compute the gradient of a cost function with the Autograd
  interface, the value of the intermediate forward pass is now available via the `grad_fn.forward`

>   property:
>   [(#914)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/914)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  property
  [(#914)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/914):
```

  ```python
  def cost_fn(x, y):

>       return 2*np.sin(x[0])*np.exp(-x[1]) + x[0]**3 + np.cos(y)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      return 2 * np.sin(x[0]) * np.exp(-x[1]) + x[0] ** 3 + np.cos(y)
```

  params = np.array([0.1, 0.5], requires_grad=True)
  data = np.array(0.65, requires_grad=False)
  grad_fn = qml.grad(cost_fn)

  grad_fn(params, data)  # perform backprop and evaluate the gradient
  grad_fn.forward  # the cost function value
  ```

* Gradient-based optimizers now have a `step_and_cost` method that returns
  both the next step as well as the objective (cost) function output.
  [(#916)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/916)

  ```pycon
  >>> opt = qml.GradientDescentOptimizer()
  >>> params, cost = opt.step_and_cost(cost_fn, params)
  ```

> * PennyLane provides a new, experimental module `qml.proc` which provides framework agnostic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PennyLane provides a new experimental module `qml.proc` which provides framework agnostic
```

  quantum tapes and classical processing functions, evaluate all quantum tapes simultaneously,
  and then apply the post-processing functions to the evaluated tape results.

* The MultiRZ gate now has a defined generator, allowing it to be used in quantum natural gradient
  optimization.
  [(#912)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/912)

* The CRot gate now has a `decomposition` method, which breaks the gate down into rotations
  and CNOT gates. This allows `CRot` to be used on devices that do not natively support it.
  [(#908)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/908)

* The classical processing in the `MottonenStatePreparation` template has been largely

>   rewritten to use dense matrices and tensor manipulations where ever possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  rewritten to use dense matrices and tensor manipulations wherever possible.
```

>   This is a preparation to support differentiation through the template in future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is in preparation to support differentiation through the template in the future.
```

  [(#864)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/864)

* Device-based caching has replaced QNode caching. Caching is now accessed by passing a
  `cache` argument to the device.
  [(#851)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/851)

  The `cache` argument should be an integer specifying the size of the cache. For example, a
  cache of size 10 is created using:

  ```pycon
  >>> dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2, cache=10)
  ```

> * The `Operation`, `Tensor`, and `MeasurementProcess` classes now has the `__copy__` special method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `Operation`, `Tensor`, and `MeasurementProcess` classes now have the `__copy__` special method
```

  defined. This allows us to ensure that, when a shallow copy is performed of an operation, the

>   mutable list storing the operation parameters is *also* shallow copied. Both the old operation and

Reviewer: Can't suggest, but just below, would be tood to move the PR link elsewhere. Looks a bit awkward to have a comma, then a bracket, then a code block

Author: done

  beyond VQE. Use of `VQECost` is still possible but will result in a deprecation warning.
  [(#913)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/913)

<h3>Bug fixes</h3>

> * The `default.qubit.tf` device is updated to handle TensorFlow objects (e.g.,

Reviewer: The inverse tricks aren't really "Bug fixes". More "Improvements"?

Author: This one?

> The `default.qubit.tf` device is updated to handle TensorFlow objects (e.g., `tf.Variable`) as gate parameters correctly when using the `MultiRZ` and `CRot` operations.

Previously, this would error if you passed a tensorflow variable as the gate parameter, so I would class this one as a bug fix 🤔

Reviewer: no, the one with the word "tricks" in it :)

Author: Oh! Right.

I think this one is badly worded. It was a bug fix, in that we _thought_ inverses were being applied via the permutation methods, but there was an error in the if statement, causing them to fallback to the einsum `_apply_unitary`.

Author: Reworded this one!

This release contains contributions from (in alphabetical order):

Juan Miguel Arrazola, Thomas Bromley, Christina Lee, Alain Delgado Gran, Olivia Di Matteo, Anthony
Hayes, Theodor Isacsson, Josh Izaac, Soran Jahangiri, Nathan Killoran, Shumpei Kobayashi, Romain

> Moyard, Zeyue Niu, Maria Schuld, Antal Száva.

Author: In included qchem contributors here as well (they are also included in the qchem changelog)

Author: Let me know if I'm missing anyone!
